[Pages]: Add binding instructions to remix sites (#5120)
cloudflare/cloudflare-docs: content/pages/framework-guides/remix.md

</div>

> After configuring your site, you can begin your first deploy. You should see Cloudflare Pages installing `npm`, your project dependencies, and building your site before deploying it.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{<Aside type="warning">}}

Currently Cloudflare uses Node `12.18.0` in the Pages build environment, but Remix requires a newer node version greater than `14.0.0` to build on Cloudflare Pages. To set the Node version, go to your Pages project > **Settings** > **Environment Variables** > **Production** and add `NODE_VERSION` environment variable with a value of `14` or greater in your Production option.

{{</Aside>}}

After configuring your site, you can begin your first deploy. You should see Cloudflare Pages installing `npm`, your project dependencies, and building your site before deploying it.
```

{{<Aside type="warning">}}

Currently Cloudflare uses Node `12.18.0` in the Pages build environment, but Remix requires a newer node version >14.0.0 to build on Cloudflare Pages. To set the Node version go to **Settings** > **Environment variables** > **Production** and add `NODE_VERSION = v16.7.0` in the production option.

> {{</Aside>}}

Reviewer 2: Remove this section?

Author: Done!

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Remix site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

## Creating and adding a binding to your Remix application

A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings) is how your Function (Worker) interacts with external resources. You can add KV, Durable Object, and plain-text bindings to your project. A binding is a runtime variable that the Workers runtime provides to your code. You can also use these bindings in development with [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/get-started/).

To add a KV namespace or Durable Object binding to your Remix application, refer to [Functions](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings).

### Using a binding in your Remix application

> If you have created a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you will access it in your Remix application by first importing the `LoaderFunction` from `@remix-run/cloudflare-pages`. The `LoaderFunction` allows you to access data from different points in your Remix application. 

Reviewer 3: the importing is only relevant to TS, you can make a Remix project with just JS right? 🤔

Author: I think the default setup is in TS. I might be wrong, but LoaderFunction isn't just for TS. https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/api/remix#useloaderdata

Reviewer 3: LoaderFunction is the type though, you create a loader function but no import is needed for that. The import is the function for grabbing that loader data (`useLoaderData`) for component rendering

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
If you have created a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you can access its data in a [Remix `loader` function](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/guides/data-loading#cloudflare-kv). 
```

The following code block shows an example of accessing a KV namespace in Remix. 

> ```typescript

Reviewer 3: it'd be cool to use the new tabs here 👀

Author: We are trying to roll it out slowly, so in the coming weeks my team will be adding the new  tabs 😁

---
filename: app/routes/products/$productId.tsx

> highlight: [9,10,11,12,13,18,21]

Reviewer 2: Update these numbers if you accept my suggestions.

---

> import type { LoaderFunction } from "@remix-run/cloudflare";

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
import type { LoaderArgs } from "@remix-run/cloudflare";
```

import { json } from "@remix-run/cloudflare"; 
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

> export const loader: LoaderFunction = async ({

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
export const loader = async ({
```

>   context, params,
>   params,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  context,
  params,
```

> }) => {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
}: LoaderArgs) => {
```

  return json(

>     await context.PRODUCTS_KV.get(`product-${params.productId}`, {

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    await context.PRODUCTS_KV.get<{ name: string }>(`product-${params.productId}`, {
```

      type: "json",
    })
  );
};

export default function Product() {

>   const product = useLoaderData();

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  const product = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();
```

  return (
    <div>
      <p>Product</p>
      {product.name}
      <p>Products</p>
      {/* ... */}
    </div>
  );
}

```

> Currently, the only way to use Durable Objects when using Cloudflare Pages is by having a separate Worker, creating a binding, and accessing it in `context`. 

Reviewer: This needs a codeblock with an example.

Reviewer 2: Assuming a binding of `FOO`, it's pretty much the same thing, @Ekwuno . Untested, but here's the gist:

```ts
export const loader = async ({ params, context, request }: LoaderArgs) => {
  const id = context.FOO.idFromName(params.id)
  const stub = context.FOO.get(id)
  const response = await stub.fetch(request)
  const data = await response.json() as { name: string }
  return json(data)
}
```

> You have to do this because there is currently no way to export the Durable Object class from a Pages Function. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You have to do this because there is no way to export the Durable Object class from a Pages Function. 
```

It's unlikely that we ever (directly) add this in the future. We have other plans on how we can make deploying Durable Objects easy from a Pages project, but it'll be very unlikely that this is done by exporting DO classes from Functions.

> Refer to the Durable Objects documentation to learn about deploying a [Durable Object](/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Refer to the Durable Objects documentation to learn about deploying a [Durable Object](/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/).
```

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Remix site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

> ## Creating and adding a binding to your Remix application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Create and add a binding to your Remix application
```

> A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings) is how your Function (Worker) interacts with external resources. You can add KV, Durable Object, and plain-text bindings to your project. A binding is a runtime variable that the Workers runtime provides to your code. You can also use these bindings in development with [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/get-started/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
With a [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/), your application can interact with external resources. You can add KV, Durable Object, R2, D1, Service, plain-text and secret bindings to your project. A binding is a runtime variable that the Workers runtime provides to your code. You can also use these bindings in development with [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/get-started/).
```

> To add a KV namespace or Durable Object binding to your Remix application, refer to [Functions](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add a binding to your Remix application, refer to [Bindings](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/).
```

> ### Using a binding in your Remix application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Use a binding in your Remix application
```

If you have created a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you can access its data in a [Remix `loader` function](https://remix.run/docs/en/v1/guides/data-loading#cloudflare-kv). 

The following code block shows an example of accessing a KV namespace in Remix. 

```typescript
---
filename: app/routes/products/$productId.tsx

> highlight: [9,10,11,12,13,18,21]

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
highlight: [9,10,11,12,13,17,24]
```

---
import type { LoaderArgs } from "@remix-run/cloudflare";
import { json } from "@remix-run/cloudflare"; 
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader = async ({
  context,
  params,
}: LoaderArgs) => {
  return json(
    await context.PRODUCTS_KV.get<{ name: string }>(`product-${params.productId}`, {
      type: "json",
    })
  );
};

export default function Product() {
  const product = useLoaderData<typeof loader>();
  
  if (!product) throw new Response(null, { status: 404 })
  
  return (
    <div>
      <p>Product</p>
      {product.name}
      <p>Products</p>
      {/* ... */}
    </div>
  );
}

```

> Currently, the only way to use Durable Objects when using Cloudflare Pages is by having a separate Worker, creating a binding, and accessing it in `context`. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Currently, the only way to use Durable Objects when using Cloudflare Pages is by having a separate Worker, creating a binding, and accessing it in `context`. For example:

```ts
export const loader = async ({
  context,
  params,
}: LoaderArgs) => {
  const id = context.PRODUCTS_DO.idFromName(params.productId);
  const stub = context.PRODUCTS_DO.get(id);
  const response = await stub.fetch(request);
  const data = await response.json() as { name: string };
  return json(data);
};
```
```

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Remix site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

## Create and add a binding to your Remix application

> A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as KV, Durable Object, R2, and D1. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/bindings/) allows your application to interact with Cloudflare developer products, such as [KV](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/learning/how-kv-works/), [Durable Object](/workers/learning/using-durable-objects/), [R2](/r2/), and [D1](https://blog.cloudflare.com/introducing-d1/). 
```

### Using a binding in your Remix application

If you have created a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you will access it in your Remix application by first importing the `LoaderFunction` from `@remix-run/cloudflare-pages`. The `LoaderFunction` allows you to access data from different points in your Remix application. 

The following code block shows an example of accessing a KV namespace in Remix. 

```typescript
---
filename: app/routes/products/$productId.tsx
highlight: [9,10,11,12,13,18,21]
---
import type { LoaderFunction } from "@remix-run/cloudflare";
import { json } from "@remix-run/cloudflare"; 
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader: LoaderFunction = async ({
  context, params,
  params,
}) => {
  return json(
    await context.PRODUCTS_KV.get(`product-${params.productId}`, {
      type: "json",
    })
  );
};

export default function Product() {
  const product = useLoaderData();
  return (
    <div>
      <p>Product</p>
      {product.name}
      <p>Products</p>
      {/* ... */}
    </div>
  );
}

```

## Learn more

> By completing this guide, you have successfully deployed your Remix.js site to Cloudflare Pages. To get started with other frameworks, [refer to the list of Framework guides](/pages/framework-guides/).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
By completing this guide, you have successfully deployed your Remix site to Cloudflare Pages. To get started with other frameworks, [refer to the list of Framework guides](/pages/framework-guides/).
```

To add a KV namespace or Durable Object binding to your Remix application, refer to [Functions](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings).

### Using a binding in your Remix application

If you have created a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you will access it in your Remix application by first importing the `LoaderFunction` from `@remix-run/cloudflare-pages`. The `LoaderFunction` allows you to access data from different points in your Remix application. 

The following code block shows an example of accessing a KV namespace in Remix. 

```typescript
---
filename: app/routes/products/$productId.tsx
highlight: [9,10,11,12,13,18,21]
---
import type { LoaderFunction } from "@remix-run/cloudflare";
import { json } from "@remix-run/cloudflare"; 
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader: LoaderFunction = async ({
  context, params,
  params,
}) => {
  return json(
    await context.PRODUCTS_KV.get(`product-${params.productId}`, {

>     await PRODUCTS_KV.get(`product-${params.productId}`, {

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
```

      type: "json",
    })
  );
};

export default function Product() {
  const product = useLoaderData();
  return (
    <div>
      <p>Product</p>
      {product.name}

>       <p>{} Products</p>

Reviewer 3: Were the brackets here meant for some code? If not, can we remove them

>       <p>{} Products</p>

Author: ```suggestion
      <p>Products</p>
```

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Remix site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

## Creating and adding a binding to your Remix application

A [binding](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings) is how your Function (Worker) interacts with external resources. You can add KV, Durable Object, and plain-text bindings to your project. A binding is a runtime variable that the Workers runtime provides to your code. You can also use these bindings in development with [Wrangler](https://developers.cloudflare.com/workers/wrangler/get-started/).

To add a KV namespace or Durable Object binding to your Remix application, refer to [Functions](/pages/platform/functions/#adding-bindings).

> ### Using binding in your Remix application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Using a binding in your Remix application
```

> For example, if you create a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you will access it in your Remix application by first importing the `LoaderFunction` from `@remix-run/cloudflare-pages`. The `LoaderFunction` allows you to access data from different points in your Remix application. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you have created a KV namespace binding called `PRODUCTS_KV`, you will access it in your Remix application by first importing the `LoaderFunction` from `@remix-run/cloudflare-pages`. The `LoaderFunction` allows you to access data from different points in your Remix application. 
```

> The following code block shows an example of accessing a KV namespace in Remix. 

Reviewer: Where does this codeblock go?

Reviewer: What about the other storage objects? How does a user configure this for DO?

Reviewer 2: https://github.com/cloudflare/cloudflare-docs/pull/5120/files#diff-681df135c308ab29fcec511f4fb223227c9d283d1d9c1bef838c70b338b2aadbR85

A full filename and path is given here. Are you meaning something else?

```typescript
---
filename: app/routes/products/$productId.tsx
highlight: [9,10,11,12,13,18,21]
---
import type { LoaderFunction } from "@remix-run/cloudflare";
import { json } from "@remix-run/cloudflare"; 
import { useLoaderData } from "@remix-run/react";

export const loader: LoaderFunction = async ({
  context, params,
  params,
}) => {
  return json(
    await context.PRODUCTS_KV.get(`product-${params.productId}`, {
    await PRODUCTS_KV.get(`product-${params.productId}`, {
      type: "json",
    })
  );
};

export default function Product() {
  const product = useLoaderData();
  return (
    <div>
      <p>Product</p>
      {product.name}
      <p>{} Products</p>
      {/* ... */}
    </div>
  );
}

```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

After deploying your site, you will receive a unique subdomain for your project on `*.pages.dev`.
Every time you commit new code to your Remix site, Cloudflare Pages will automatically rebuild your project and deploy it. You will also get access to [preview deployments](/pages/platform/preview-deployments/) on new pull requests, so you can preview how changes look to your site before deploying them to production.

> ## Adding binding to Remix project

Author: I noticed the workflow is a bit weird currently, there is no way to add bindings when creating a new project. Like how you would an environment variable.

> ## Adding binding to Remix project

Reviewer 3: Oh whoops, I didn't see the deploy section talked about creating a project. I thought it was deploying an existing one

nevermind me
